---
title: Common Lab Setup and Pre-Requisites
description: This describes the set up common to all of the Labs in this workshop
services: azure-stack
documentationcenter: ''
author: gpillai
manager: 
editor: ''

ms.service: azure-stack
ms.workload: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.date: 08/27/2019
ms.topic: Lab Instructions
ms.author: gpillai
ms.reviewer: gpillai
ms.lastreviewed: 08/27/2019

---

# Common setup for all of the Azure Stack DevOps Labs #

## ASDK Environment ##

A single shared ASDK environment will be provided to all attendees. However each attendee will be provided with an isolated subscription, which will be the boundary for each attendee. 

## Rights and priviliges ##

For each attendee will have their own subscription. The following are the rights and recommended mode of operating the lab.

1. Each attendee will own their subscription.

2. Each attendee will create separate Resource Groups for each of the Lab modules and do the deployment for that specific module inside the Resource Group.

## Azure DevOps Project ##

Each attendee will need an Azure DevOps project where they will store their source code and pipelines. Attendees have two choices for this.

1. Create one free Azure Devops organization with their preferred user id.
2. Grant their lab user ID administrator priviliges to the Azure DevOps orgnaization.
3. Create the service connection from the Azure DevOps organization to their respective isolated Azure Stack subscription.
4. CLEANUP - at the end of the Workshop the attendee has the choice of retianing the Lab related material in the Azure DevOps project OR they can delete it.

5. Note that the ASDK itself is ephemeral for each workshop and attendees cannot expect anything to be maintained in there, as the ASDK will be deleted at the end of each workshop.

## Identity to operate the Lab ##

1. Each attendee will be assigned a user name in the AAD to which the ASDK is registered.
2. They will not have Global Admin rights on the AAD.

3. Attendess should be able to create Service Principals.


# Instructions for Workshop Delivery Engineer #

## Pre-Requisites ##

1. An Azure AD tenant for admin (workshop delivery engineer) and all end user accounts
2. An Azure subscription in public Azure to register the ASDK
3. Pre-created ASDK environment with the SQL and App Service Resource Providers ready to be consumed
4. Precreated attendee identities in the Azure AD Tenant - Tyically 16 attendees per workshop. 

    AzDevOps1@xxxx.onmicrosoft.com  
    .
    .
    . AzDevOps20@xxxx.onmicrosoft.com
    (where xxxx represents the tenant such as for example - AzDevOps.omicrosoft.com )


## Cleanup ##
At the end of each Workshop all of the following need to be deleted from the AAD.

1. Delete all service principals created in the course of tha lab.

2. Delete all identities associated to the lab
